PSMDB-1619 Documented audit log rotation behavior (#1038)
percona/psmdb-docs: docs/log-rotation.md

# Log rotation in Percona Server for MongoDB

> When you start Percona Server for MongoDB with a `--logpath` or `systemLog.path` setting, it writes logs to a file instead of standard output. These logs include detailed activity and operation information. 

Reviewer: You may use short refs for all long "Percona Server for MongoDB"

Percona Server for MongoDB has server and [audit logs](audit-logging.md). To maintain system performance, manage disk space, and meet audit and compliance requirements, you must effectively manage these logs. 

> Percona Server for MongoDB provides multiple log rotation mechanisms to help you achieve this goal. You can:
> 
> - Send a SIGUSR1 signal to the `mongod` or `mongos` process.
> 
> - Run the `logRotate` command on `mongosh`. Note that you must connect to each replica set member and start log rotation for it.
> 
> - Use the Linux/Unix `logrotate` utility with proper configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Percona Server for MongoDB supports several methods for rotating server and audit logs. You can:

- Send a SIGUSR1 signal to the `mongod` or `mongos` process to trigger log rotation. This method is typically used with system log rotation tools like logrotate.

- Run the logRotate command from mongosh. This must be done individually on each replica set member.
```

## Log rotation considerations

Percona Server for MongoDB does not rotate logs automatically. You must trigger log rotation manually or integrate with external tools like the Linux/Unix `logrotate` utility. Log rotation is not propagated across replica set members; you must rotate logs on each node independently.

## Rotation behavior configuration

Percona Server for MongoDB supports two log rotation strategies:

* `rename` (default): Renames the current log file by appending a UTC timestamp to the file name. This log file is closed. Percona Server for MongoDB creates a new log file and writes all new log entries to this file.

> * `reopen`: Closes and reopens the log file, expecting an external process (e.g., `logrotate`) to rename the file beforehand.

Reviewer 2: should be used with https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/configuration-options/#mongodb-setting-systemLog.logAppend set to true

## Rotation methods

### Manual log rotation with `logRotate`

To rotate log files, do the following:

1. Connect to the `admin` database on each replica set node except the arbiter node and run:

    ```{.javascript data-prompt="<"}
    db.adminCommand({ logRotate: "server" })
    ```       

    Supported options:

    * `server` — rotates only the server log.
    * `audit` — rotates only the audit log.
    * `1` — rotates both server and audit logs.       
    
2. Check log files:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ ls /var/log/mongodb/server1.log*
    ```

    ??? example "Sample output"

        ```{.text .no-copy}
        /var/log/mongodb/server1.log
        /var/log/mongodb/server1.log.<timestamp>
        ```

### Integration with `logrotate`

You can automate log rotation by integrating Percona Server for MongoDB with the Linux/Unix `logrotate` functionality.

Here's how to do it:

1. Create a `logrotate` configuration file at `/etc/logrotate.d/mongod`.

    ```ini
    /var/log/percona/mongod.log {
      daily
      rotate 7
      compress
      missingok
      notifempty
      create 640 percona percona
      postrotate
        kill -SIGUSR1 $(pidof mongod)

>       endscript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /var/log/mongo/mongod.log {
       daily
       rotate 7
       compress
       missingok
       notifempty
       create 600 mongod mongod
       postrotate
        /bin/kill -SIGUSR1 $(pidof mongod)
       endscript
}
```

    }
   ```

2. Configure Percona Server for MongoDB:

    ```yaml
    systemLog:
      destination: file
      path: /var/log/percona/mongod.log
      logAppend: true
      logRotate: reopen
    ```

This setup ensures that Percona Server for MongoDB works seamlessly with logrotate, allowing external rotation and compression of log files.

> ### Signal-Based Rotation (Unix Systems)

Reviewer 2: move to prev section
